- [Instructor] JSPs have the ability to add tag libraries
which can deliver additional capabilities to the page.
In this lesson, we'll explore the java standard tag library,
one of the most commonly used tag libraries with JSP.
To add a tag library, we first add a directive to the page.
You'll remember that directives send messages
to the JSP container to tell it what components to add.
We currently have the page directive on our JSP,
we're going to go ahead and add another directive
that is going to be a tag library directive.
So when we add a tag library,
we specify a prefix, and that prefix can be used
as a short hand way to reference tags within that library.
So, we're going to assign C as the prefix for JSTL,
and then we need to specify the URI for JSTL.
Now, you'll notice that you get several selections
provided for you by default,
and you want to be very careful
to make sure you get the right version.
So you'll want to select
java.sun.com/jsp/jstl/core,
and you can see that corresponds with version 1.2 of JSTL.
Okay, so with that in place,
we can now use JSTL within our JSP page,
but let's change some of the attributes
coming back to the JSP.
So we're going to navigate over to our servlet,
and here you'll see that we
are adding an item to the catalog
when the form is submitted,
let's go ahead and add
the actual collection of items
as an attribute on the request.
So, we're going to name the attribute items,
and then we're simply going to use the catalog class
and it has a getItems method,
which returns a list of catalog items.
So now we're going to have a collection
as an attribute on our request,
and what we can do over in the JSP
is we can use JSTL to iterate through that collection.
So let's navigate further down in our page
and here you can see we have our dynamic message.
Well, instead of displaying the message attribute,
which no longer exists,
we're going to build out our table sum.
So within the table, I'm going to add another table row,
and in here we'll add headers to the table,
so one for the name, and then we can go ahead and add
a header as well for the manufacturer.
And then we can display the SKU.
Okay, now let's get to the dynamic part.
So within the page,
we're going to use JSTL
and you'll see that it has a forEach tag,
and this basically causes iteration
within the markup of the page
to display markups for each element within a collection.
So we need to specify an items attribute,
and here's where we're going to reference
that collection that we added as an attribute
within the request.
And then we need to assign a variable for
each item in the collection.
So I've just specified that as item,
and then what we can do, we can borrow this syntax
and place it within
the body of that tag.
And anything between the opening and closing tag
of that forEach tag is going to be
repeated for each element within the collection.
So we're going to create a new table row.
We can remove some of the styling,
and then here, we can reference
the different properties on the item,
so there was a name property,
there was also a manufacturer property that we can display,
let's go ahead and add that,
and then we can also add the SKU property.
Okay, so that's in place.
So at this point, let's go ahead and run our application.
So we can right click on our project,
go to run as, and then run on server.
You'll see that WildFly is starting up.
And there we see our console,
and there our application is started.
And I'm actually going to go over to Firefox
to show you this demonstration.
So let's add a product name,
and this product name,
we're going to be a little bit clever with it,
we're going to put in some markup actually.
And then we can just put test in
for the manufacturer, put an SKU.
And there'll you'll notice that once the JSP
displayed the content and sent it back to the browser,
we actually, you know, had the script execute.
That's not good, that's actually a vulnerability.
So, what we can do in order to prevent that,
is if we go back to the list.jsp page,
there's another tag within the JSTL library
and it's c:out, and what this is going to do
it's going to escape the content
that is going out to the browser
and recommend using it anytime
that you are sending output to the browser that's untrusted.
So, let's go ahead, we're going to stop our server.
And then I'll go back, restart the project,
and we can give that test another shot.
So I just wanted to illustrate that
so that you're not creating insecure applications with JSP.
So we'll head back to the form,
and I'll just copy this
so we don't have to type it back out.
And, we're going to once again, add the malicious script in,
we'll put our manufacturer as test,
and then we can put in our SKU.
And now you'll notice that we safely rendered that markup.
So, always keep that in mind.
You have the out tag within the JSTL library
that can make your applications more secure.